Robotics Progress

-Before Competition – April 17-16, 2023
	Before the competition we were thinking about doing a compact base with the small 2-inch omni wheels. We continuously worked on getting one side of the base as best as possible because it would be easier to copy one side then continuously change 2 sides.
What we learned

	We learned the best gear ratios and we also learned how to make our own bearings which we can use for anything else going forward

When the competition came out – April 27, 2023

	The day the competition came out we got together as a team to discuss what would be the best design and what we would prioritize doing. We discussed going over the boundary in the middle as that would be an advantage to us and give us more options during the match. 

	We also searched the rules seeing if any of them went against our strategies. We talked about double zoning and how we couldn’t carry more than one tribal

Building our base – April 28- May 12, 2023
After that day it was a mix of research and testing new designs. Because we decided on going over the obstacle in the middle, we decided to use the 4-inch omni wheels as they would make it easier to go over that obstacle. We built several different wheel designs and took what was best from all of them to come up with a new idea each time. One of theses ideas included using c channels to connect the wheel going downward to give us more clearance on the base. 

	As we were doing research, we found a design of a guard on the front of the base that would allow the base to get onto the obstacle and drive over it. This gave me the idea of just using the front of the 4-inch wheel as the guard to gust drive over the obstacle. 

	With this new idea our team built a base putting the 4-inch wheels at the very edges of the base so that it would be able to climb on top of obstacles. After we built once side of the base to our liking, we build the other side and connected them.
Testing 
	Once we finished the base, we used a piece of pipe we had laying around to test the climbing of our robot. We learned that our robot can easily go over the obstacles at high speeds but at low speed it has a tendency to gets stuck halfway. We tested several ways to get rid of this problem. Our first ideas was to put small rollers in between the wheels so that the robot could roll over the obstacle. We tried this idea, and it did help but it didn’t get rid of the problem completely. The next idea we tried was to put a piece on the bottom of the base so that we can slide over the obstacle. This turned out to work a lot better than anything we tried before so we stuck with the idea. 

Intake May 15-24, 2023
	After working on the base, we built a prototype intake to hold the tribal. We build a quick prototype to test and after we tested it, we learned that it worked better than we expected so we kept the main idea from the prototype and made it more streamline. We attached the flex wheel better so it was more compact and we also attached the intake to the robot in a better way to make the intake more stable and reliable.

Testing intake May 24-29, 2023
	After we finished making changes to the intake, we started testing it and we learned that we needed to separate the front wheels to intake the wide side of the tribal better. We also learned that the tension from the rubber bands wasn’t enough to keep the tribal in the intake when we turned so we added more rubber bands to add more tension which fixed the problem.

Shooter May 30- June 7, 2023
	After the intake, we talked about the best way the shoot the tribal to the other side. We talked about a flywheel and puncher for options. We decided on a puncher though as we thought it would be more reliable, take up less space, and it would use less motors which we needed to save for the lift.

	We built a simple puncher to learn the best way to make one as we had never made one yet. We learned the best most compact, simple, and reliable way to make one. 
